From field-report #5:

	The anterior dorsal vertebrae have a big "wing", those
	immediately behind being bifurcate.  I cannot, however,
	identify them with either species of Dicraeosaurus as
	described in such of the German reports as are here.

From Migeod (1931a):

	The anterior dorsal vertebrae apparently had their neural
	spines in two parts, which led me at first to the opinion that
	this dinosaur was a _Dicraeosaurus_.  This view proved on
	further excavation to be untenable, and indeed the bifurcate
	spines were similar to neither species of _Dicraeosaurus_
	found at Tendaguru by the Germans.  Owing to the skeleton
	being on its right side the spines were pressed together, and
	only in the case of one dorsal, No. 4, and doubtfully D 3,
	could it be seen, as they lay in the ground, that the
	bifurcate spines stood in the living animal side by side."
		[This is just plain weird.  Since none of the neural
		spines forward of mD7+8 have been prepared, I have not
		been able to examine any of these bifurcate spines.
		Since this is arguably the single most unusual feature
		of the animal, we should push to get the material
		prepared.]

	D5, for instance, had two knob-ended spines lying side by side
	and in the fore-and-aft line.  These might have been displaced.  Ends
	of all the anterior spines were knob-like rather than of an oval
	section, while those from about D10, the sacral ones, and those of the
	tail were as usual flattened.  D10 first indicated a distinctly
	circular section.  There are more of these flattened spines than would
	furnish one for each centrum, and their allocation requires further
	study of the material.  Already in D10 the length of the neural spines
	was considerable.

	"From Nos. 5 to 1 all the neural spines and processes are
	inclined forward, indicating a rise of the anterior part of
	the body."
		[I want to say that this is unusual for
		_Brachiosaurus_, but in fact there may be no known
		anterior brachiosaur dorsals with preserved spines.]

	"Of the two neural spines of D4, which lay in the ground one
	over the other, and so were in their correct position, the
	upper one, i.e. the left, connected with D5 and the under one
	with D3."
		[Huh?!]

	"In D4 to D1 and new development occurs.  That is, the spines
	have great ``wings'' consisting of thin bone with thicker
	edges, and running to some two feet in diameter.  They were in
	position on the lower side of the vertebra [sic], but I was
	unable to decide whether there were two, the upper on having
	broken away, or whether the wing was a single one and standing
	somewhat like a sail.  Why I was doubtful was because there
	lay partly on D1 and partly on the shoulder vertebra a
	triangular flat bone of much the same shape [visible in the
	ground plan -- MT], and I could not determine whether it was a
	broken-down wing, or whether it was the head of one of the
	larger ribs.  I was indisposed to disturb it, and it was
	plastered in position."

